Let us look at it now with an example.
Let's compare two projects.
Two projects with different risks.
Let us think.
We have to value, or they give us
the opportunity to value and
acquire two companies.
We have to pay for that company.
We have to buy the company and we
will receive some cash flows
in the future, obviously.
In both cases, when
the seller projected cash
flows of $100,000 per year.
for three years.
It is very simple, we have simplified
everything.
These are the box flow.
of the two companies.
We will receive the same
for both companies.
But the first company
we have at the top is
a real estate, real estate
company.
It sometimes seems like a
hassle to use the terms in English,
but really real estate is a
term we have to know because
it is used frequently.
What is happening in the real estate sector?
What happens to this company?
It is a company that will be devoted
or that is devoted, for example,
to buy assets in prime areas of large
cities and put them in profitability.
This is a business with a very low
risk.
But we have the case B, which is a technological
startup.
It turns out that your cousin offers
you to invest in an app with which
you want to change the world, etc.
The risk is very high in this case.
As we can see on the screen,
we have two box streams.
And now what we have to do is determine
what the net current value is
or what the value of those two
companies is.
How much would we be willing
to invest in each of these
projects?
So first, I would like you to
do the analysis.
Which would you be willing to invest
more in?
Two companies that offer you the
same, in theory, what they offer
you is the same cash flows to
futures that are but not.
However, one of the two has a
higher risk.
Which would you pay more for?
Well, let's see it.
And we'll go back to the formula
we've seen before, which is that
the upgrade rate depends on the
risk-free interest plus the risk bonus.
The risk-free interest in both cases
is the same.
Let's say it's 2%.
We will now put it on the
risk premium to each of the investments.
For example, we allocate 3%
to real estate investments.
We demand an additional 3% of the price.
Well, we're going to get a 3% more
than in treasure letters, for
example, and we're happy with that.
Instead of the startup, how much
will we demand?
We will demand a lot more because
the probability, by pure statistics,
that a company of that type
does not work and that those $100,
000 of which we have talked
all the years do not end up
materializing are very high.
Therefore, we must charge you
or assign you a higher risk
premium.
Well, what we do is go to the
formula again of cash flow discount
and we'll calculate the
value for each of the two
investments.
In case A, real estate, the factor,
the discount rate is 5% and
in the case of the startup
is 50%.
From that, we calculate
the current value.
In which of the two cases is the current
value higher?
What did I ask you before?
Well, since it is obvious that the current
value is higher given that the
cash flows are the same, the current
value is higher in the case of the
investment that has lower risk,
which is 272,000 euros.
You buy the company or invest 272,
000 euros and by demanding a
profitability of 5% every year you
will get 100,000 euros the
next three years.
This is the explanation.
However, if we go to the second
case, the current net value is 140,
000 euros.
I would not invest more than 140,000
euros in this project.
Why is?
Because the risk is very high, because
you have to demand a high profitability
given, as we have said,
that the risk is very high.
In this case, the update
rate is 50%.
Well, as we've seen, if the discount
rate is higher, the current
value is lower.
The value of the company, the value
of the investment, what we would be willing
to pay is less, it is obvious,
because there is more risk.
But let's see it now from another
perspective that I think can
help us understand it even
better.
We'll think of the same two cases,
real estate and startup.
And we will think that in both
cases the current value of that
investment or what we have to
invest is 100,000 euros.
We have to invest 100,000 euros in
the real estate sector and
100,000 euros in a startup.
And what we are going to do now is, we
have already calculated, we already
know what the profitability we will
demand from those investments.
In which of the two cases do
you think cash flows should be
higher, so that this is
attractive?
Well, because it is obvious that cash
flows should be higher in the
investment with more risk.
If I invest 100,000 euros in real
estate and 100,000 euros in a startup,
I obviously hope that the cash flows
that the startup generates
will be much greater.
Why is?
The risk of getting them is much
greater.
We can see this in the formula.
Because in the discount of cash
flows, the variables are the net
current value or the company'
s value or the present value,
the cash flows that will be
generated or that will be higher.